[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired special agent
who served in the
Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO/ET-related
intelligence.
Today, we are going to discuss
an extraterrestrial incident
in the Soviet Union.
Richard, welcome.
>>RICHARD DOTY:
Thank you, Emery.
Good to be here.
>>EMERY: It's not often we
learn about ET-related incidents
from the former Soviet Union.
What can you share with us
from your investigations?
>>DOTY: In January
of 1985, there
was an incident that occurred in
Soviet Union near a Soviet ICBM
base, Intercontinental
Ballistic Missile Base,
in southeastern Soviet Union.
It's called Ceremchova.
A couple days earlier,
the Soviet radar
picked up something
that was traveling
from Siberia or southwest.
There were several
objects, actually,
that were tracked by
Soviet radar and also
Soviet interceptors,
but they were never
able to actually get close
enough to these two objects.
Sometime later, on the 12th,
an extraterrestrial craft
landed near a Soviet ICBM base.
And the US intelligence service
had a control agency contact--
we call them CACs, CAC--
but they were spies.
They were working for the
United States government.
And that spy reported back to
us this incident that occurred.
>>EMERY: Why'd they pick
this specific missile base?
>>DOTY: I don't know that the
Soviets knew or we figured out
or our spy there on scene
figured out why, but--
and we learned more later.
But at the time,
it landed, and it
was confronted by Soviet
military and security
personnel.
And occupants got
out of this craft,
and the Soviet military
personnel engaged them.
One Soviet soldier fired an
AK-47 and shot one of the ETs.
The other three picked
up their wounded comrade
and took him back
inside the craft.
As the craft was taking off,
Soviet military personnel
fired at the craft, and the
craft ended up crashing.
But a beam of light
came out of the craft
and hit a Soviet Jeep,
totally vaporizing the Jeep.
There wasn't anything
left of that Jeep,
according to our source.
So then the Soviet
military personnel,
after the craft
crashed, they were
able to open up the hatch
on the ET craft, the UFO,
and capture the four
entities, or four ETs,
and take them into
their custody.
>>EMERY: What did
this craft look like,
and what did the ETs look like?
>>DOTY: The craft
was a circular shape,
about 30 feet in diameter.
It was described in meters,
but equivalent to 30
feet in diameter.
It had a hatch on the bottom.
It had an oval shape
on top, oval shape
on bottom, typical UFO
craft that people have seen.
There was a hatchet opened
with stairs coming out.
It was a matted gray in color.
The ETs were about 3
foot 5 inches tall.
They had on a tight fitting
gray suit, similar--
they referred to it
as a gray flight suit.
They had longer arms, no thumbs.
They had-- and each had
helmets with a nozzle
from the front to
the back, and they
had a small tank in the
back, similar to something
that they might be
having to breathe.
But they were taken
into custody and were
taken to another Soviet
base some distance away.
The Soviets spent a
lot of time trying
to interrogate these
entities by speaking Russian.
They used all sorts
of languages--
Russian, English,
Spanish, Czech.
And these entities
wouldn't communicate
or couldn't communicate.
They tried everything.
They sent some
linguists in from Moscow
that spoke other
languages, but they
couldn't communicate
at all using
any of the different
various languages.
I think there were 11 or 12
different languages they used.
The Soviets didn't really
know what to do with them.
The one that they
had shot was dead.
It was dead.
The Soviet physicians
tried to revive it,
tried to care for it, but it--
they didn't know the anatomy.
It was really hopeless.
These entities were transported
to another facility,
a detention center,
and housed there.
Four days later, these
entities disappeared.
The Soviet military
personnel that
were guarding these entities
saw them in their cells
in the detention
area, and then when
they turned their backs, they--
suddenly, the
entities disappeared.
They, of course, searched
for them, couldn't find them.
The entity's craft was at
another location some distance
away, about 20 kilometers away.
So the Soviet personnel
went to that crash--
the hangar housing this craft,
and that disappeared, too.
>>EMERY: Could you elaborate
a little bit more--
why they landed right there
at that particular point?
>>DOTY: First of
all, let me explain.
The Soviet ICBM missiles
are not controlled
like our ICBM missiles
are in the United States.
The Soviet military
personnel didn't
have complete control over
every one of their missiles.
There had been a launch control
personnel at launch control
facilities close to the missiles
in order to launch them,
and some of these
missiles didn't have any
launch control personnel there.
When the Soviets
went back, they found
the hatches, the probably
20-ton hatches, removed.
So the Soviet ICBM was exposed.
And they found that
some of the missiles--
I think there were
three of them--
that had been
manipulated, or there's
been some kind of either
an examination or some kind
of tampering with a warhead
on top of the missiles.
The Soviets didn't realize
this until some weeks later.
They took it apart to figure
out why it wasn't working,
and every single
operating component
that would have caused a nuclear
detonation was all disabled.
>>EMERY: Oh my goodness.
>>DOTY: In all three of them.
>>EMERY: In all of them.
>>DOTY: And how someone or
something or some entity
could do that without
actually going down and taking
the missile apart, the
warhead apart to do that,
is beyond explanation.
>>EMERY: Well, it
looks like to me
they're trying to give
us another message there.
>>DOTY: Well, we know
from past experiences
that they did the same
thing with our missile sites
in Montana and South
Dakota and North Dakota.
>>EMERY: So what was the medical
examination on these beings?
What was the morphology
that they found out?
>>DOTY: The one that was--
died, that was shot, was
examined very closely.
X-rays were taken.
Tissue samples were taken.
And one of the
things they found out
was the suit, or maybe the skin,
the outer texture of the ET,
the entity, was in
different layers.
So they had to cut through--
the Soviet
pathologist had to cut
through several
different layers.
And according to
our source, they
weren't sure if they
were cutting through skin
or whether it was texture
of some kind of a material.
They didn't know.
But they took samples of
every one-- everything
down to the actual organs.
And the organs
was one big organ,
similar to what we
knew about the Ebens,
which was one organ--
a heart-lung complex,
something that would resemble
maybe a stomach or intestines,
and they had white
fluid in their system
rather than our red, or we've
seen entities with green fluid.
But it had white fluid.
The Soviet scientists or medical
personnel, pathologists--
it was unknown to them.
One of the main things the
Soviet scientists wanted
to know is, were these things
created, or were they--
they were born like
our humans would be?
>>EMERY: Or were they grown
like clones or programmed life
forms, or are they half
machine, half organic?
The fact that you
mentioned all these layers
before you get to the
organs is very interesting.
We've seen this in
the projects a lot.
>>DOTY: Yes, and I've seen it
when I worked for Association
DARPA that they had layers.
And most of those with layers
were the part humanoid and part
robot, and they weren't
the actual entities
that were-- that had
flesh and blood like we
would consider a human.
>>EMERY: Absolutely.
I agree.
So were they able
to communicate ever
with these
extraterrestrials, or it's
just they were
unsuccessful with that?
>>DOTY: They never were
able to communicate.
They tried everything.
They even tried telepathy.
They had some psychic, a person
come in from a local institute
or something.
And they weren't able to.
These entities would
just stand or sit
and would be noncompliant.
The Soviet personnel would
give them instructions--
sit down or--
they were given food.
They were given water,
but the entities
wouldn't touch the
food or the water.
>>EMERY: And were they
OK with this atmosphere?
Did they take their
helmets off, leave them on?
>>DOTY: No, one of
the things that they
didn't do, the Soviets didn't
take the entities' helmets off,
because they
figured if they did,
it probably would kill
them, because they
would have to breathe.
But one of the things
they couldn't understand
was the little tank in the
back was very, very small.
It wasn't a large tank.
It was a very small tank.
And they survived several
days just on that small tank.
And they couldn't
figure out what that was
or if it was regenerating
itself inside the tank,
like I talked about before,
where these certain entities
could feed themselves.
And so they weren't sure if
that was something biological
or it was mechanical.
But we never learned--
we learned-- our
source was able to get
us some photographs
of the entities
and photographs of the craft.
>>EMERY: Do you have
any videos or have
seen videos of the
interrogation or of the craft?
>>DOTY: I personally
didn't, but I
knew we had them, that our
US intelligence service had
a copy of the video.
And I'm not sure
if the video was
of an interrogation
of the entities
or if it was the
actual incident.
I mean, they were--
there were some pictures
of the actual incident.
I saw still pictures
of the craft
on the ground and several Soviet
military vehicles around it.
But I didn't see anything
else other than that.
>>EMERY: I mean, did you see
any rivets, or was it seamless?
>>DOTY: No, there were
no seams, no rivets.
The Soviet personnel
went inside the craft,
and the inside of the craft
was very, very simple.
There were places for
the entities to sit.
There were metal--
similar to metal chairs.
There wasn't any knob, switches,
or buttons inside the craft.
There was a large monitor
in front of the seats.
There was a panel that
had similar to handprints,
and that's it, as if the
entity sat in these chairs
and put their hands in these
printed areas or grooves
and maybe flew the
craft that way or maybe
through their mind.
But there wasn't any other
rooms or compartments
inside this craft.
>>EMERY: It's just
one big hollow space?
>>DOTY: Yes, one--
>>EMERY: Now, how many of these
areas with the palms and seats
did you--
did you see in the pictures?
>>DOTY: Four.
There was just four,
and there were four--
>>EMERY: Four of them.
>>DOTY: --entities, yeah.
>>EMERY: On the panels, you
know, we have five fingers.
Were there any
digits that looked
like that's where they
put their hands into?
>>DOTY: Just four.
They didn't have thumbs.
>>EMERY: OK, so there
was four digits.
>>DOTY: Four digits.
>>EMERY: OK.
>>DOTY: Four grooves.
>>EMERY: Four grooves.
Four grooves.
>>DOTY: And the only thing
other than that were--
there were metal rods that ran
from the ceiling of the craft
down to the back of the chair.
Each chair had this
metal bar running--
some kind of a bar.
And that's it.
It was ironic.
It was very-- our analysts
emphasized the fact that there
wasn't any other rooms, little
galley ways inside this craft.
It was all one big area.
Now, one of our
scientists, later on,
surmised that once it
was on the ground, that's
what we would see.
But once it flew, these
walls could be fluid
and could change shapes.
We actually saw this
in a captured craft
that we recovered
in Nevada years
ago that once that was powered
up, things inside that craft
changed appearances.
And that's what
they think that--
what occurred.
>>EMERY: Did you learn anything
about the propulsion system
on this craft?
>>DOTY: Yes, we did.
The Soviets had drew a
picture of the craft, artist's
conception of the craft.
And what they found
under the craft
was these three round
containers, ball containers.
And according to the Soviet
scientists and, later on,
the analysis done
by our scientists,
there were positive
ion and negative ion
pods with a third
container that probably--
and this is probably
theorizing--
where both positive and negative
ions would be placed in there,
which would cause the
propulsion system.
So they figured it was some
type of ion propulsion system,
a positive and negative.
And that's all I
was ever briefed on.
>>EMERY: Did they
ever say anything
about the craft making any noise
or the beings making any noise?
>>DOTY: As I said earlier, there
was some additional information
that was obtained later.
On January 11, the day before,
a small village some distance
from Ceremchova,
there was an incident
that happened where
this craft landed,
and these entities
got out and had
to interface with
some local villagers
near a collective farm.
And there was a
lot of interface,
and these Soviet citizens
were able to form
some kind of communications
with these entities, probably
through telepathy.
When after this craft
had left or disappeared,
the Soviet KGB started
interviewing people
and found this village, and
it was some distance away--
50 kilometers maybe,
something like that.
They found these
people, and these people
said, oh, we spoke
to these people
from outer space, outer space--
I think they call
them outer space men.
>>EMERY: Did they elaborate
of what was spoken?
Would they speak about
what was the conversation?
>>DOTY: Yes.
The entities wanted
to know who they were
and what their jobs were.
What were they doing?
And these people worked
on a collective farm
in Soviet Union.
They were farmers.
And everybody worked at one--
for one mission in Soviet Union
during that time.
They were collective farmers.
And they were trying to
explain that to these entities.
And they were
talking in Russian.
The entities were
speaking in some language
they couldn't understand.
But these farmers could
understand everything
in their mind.
It confused them at
first, because they
were hearing voices in their
mind from these entities.
But they didn't relate
initially that the entities
were sending these.
Eventually, they figured it
all out, and they had a long--
I think an hour or so--
time with these entities.
And then, of course, they
were asking questions, too--
where you came from.
The entities were trying to
explain where they came from,
but they didn't know how
to do it in our language.
They were giving
numbers of star groups
and number of planets
within the star group.
Well, these collective farmers
were not educated in astronomy,
so they didn't understand this.
They told the KGB, and later,
there were scientists that came
in and spoke-- brought these
witnesses in and tried to have
them draw charts and--
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: But still, there
wasn't any information
coming from them
to exactly pinpoint
where these entities
were coming from.
>>EMERY: I believe,
even today, it
would be hard for
us to understand
that mapping of where
someone comes from in space.
>>DOTY: Exactly,
because they had
their own astronomy, their
own physics, their own math.
And here we are.
We had our own.
We don't know what
their system is.
They don't know
what our system is.
It would be very
difficult to try
to explain a certain
place in a certain galaxy
or a certain star system
that they came from to us.
Yes, it would be very difficult.
>>EMERY: Do we know today what
kind of extraterrestrial beings
they are?
>>DOTY: Well, our intelligence
analysts, getting together
with scientists
who had knowledge
of the UFO and the
extraterrestrial races,
came to a conclusion-- and this
isn't coming from the Soviets.
This is coming from our people--
that they were the Ebens.
They came from Zeta
Reticuli star group.
>>EMERY: What do you
personally think,
Rick, about this final report?
>>DOTY: Well, I believe
everything in the report.
It's an official report.
It came from a well-placed
control agency contact
inside the Soviet military that
had provided countless accurate
intelligence in the past.
And what's ironic
was some years later,
one of the KGB officers that
interviewed the witnesses--
now, he wasn't at the
scene of the incident,
but he was the one that
interviewed the witnesses--
immigrated to the United
States and came out
at one of the UFO conventions.
Now, his recollection is
coming from the Soviets,
and so the actual
chain of events
is a lot different
from his point of view
than from the
intelligence report
that I had read, an intelligence
report that is online.
It's a different viewpoint.
But it all says
basically the same thing.
>>EMERY: Now, I heard something
from one of my people--
maybe you can verify this--
that when the craft
landed in this village,
it left markings in the foliage
or the ground or something.
And see if you could
talk about that, and was
there anything exchanged between
the villagers and the ETs?
>>DOTY: Well, the landing did--
when the craft landed, there
wasn't anything on the ground.
But when the craft
left, the villagers
felt these entities
were friendly.
They were friends.
I mean, they didn't--
they tried-- the villagers tried
to exchange bread and salt,
which is a custom of the
Soviet Union of friendship,
exchanging bread and
salt. They took--
the entities took the bread.
They weren't-- they didn't
take the salt. Funny,
they maybe didn't know what
it was or I don't know.
>>EMERY: They had high
blood pressure, probably.
>>DOTY: Maybe they had
high blood pressure.
But the entities did
give the villagers
these two long, almost
looking like cigars,
but they're metal-shaped,
similar to looking
like a cigar, but
they were metal.
And they gave two of
them, one to each--
the two main villagers that
they spoke with, they gave them.
Now, when the craft
left, there was
a light that came out that
left a design in the ground.
You're right-- in the ground
area, similar to a crop circle.
>>EMERY: Right.
And I heard there's people
and scientists still
to this day going over
there, and there's not
much growth in that area.
And they've taken
lots of samples,
and people pick the flowers
there and keep them,
and they have some sort of
connection with this area.
>>DOTY: When the KGB went there
to interview these people,
they saw this
design on the ground
and asked the villagers,
who made this?
Well, our space friends made it.
Of course, they did a lot
of analysis of the ground
that they took pictures.
Actually, I think they went up
in the air with a helicopter
and took a picture
of it, of the design,
and tried to figure
out what it meant.
And the Soviet personnel,
Soviet scientists,
figured it was their galaxy
or their solar system or star
group.
>>EMERY: Like a
map or something.
>>DOTY: Yeah, some
sort of a map.
And for years-- and there was--
that was on the internet for
a long time, that design.
But I don't know if anybody
ever figured it out.
>>EMERY: Right, right.
>>DOTY: And those objects that,
of course, the KGB took them.
>>EMERY: Oh, I was going to ask.
>>DOTY: And I don't know--
he didn't know what
ever happened to them.
We didn't know what they were.
But some of the American
scientists analyzing it
figured it was some
sort of a translator.
>>EMERY: Now, many
people believe
all these small craft
that do come to the planet
are actually pods from larger
craft that are in space.
What's your take on that?
>>DOTY: Yeah, I believe it.
I believe that that's the fact.
And I've had access to
information that says
that these interplanetary--
these crafts are coming into
Earth's atmosphere and landing
and exploring
Earth's atmosphere is
coming from a larger or a mother
ship, because it's so small.
It's very difficult for us
to conceive-- of course,
we're thinking of our science--
that this craft could
leave our atmosphere--
>>EMERY: Traverse the whole--
>>DOTY: --transverse
thousands and hundreds
or light years or so forth.
And there's actually
pictures taken by NASA,
the two of them that
used to be on internet,
of these huge objects sitting
out there and orbiting
beyond Earth and that were
probably the mother ships.
>>EMERY: Is it possible,
Rick, in your opinion,
that maybe the ETs didn't
dematerialize into their craft
and took off, but
maybe the mother ship
dematerialized the beings
and the craft and took them?
>>DOTY: That's very possible.
That was not something I
had heard or read about,
but that's very possible.
Somehow, these entities
dematerialized.
You know, I don't know if it's
like the Starship Enterprise--
beam me up, Scotty--
but somehow,
and I'm sure if they're
50,000 years ahead of us
in technology, they
might have the science
to do that, to dematerialize
and rematerialize
inside their ship.
But something that,
later on, I learned
working with the Institute
for Advanced Studies,
is the theory about
these ships and about
the material that
the ship's made of
and how they can form
and reform shapes,
and there's some pictures--
there was a video, classic
video taken some years
ago by an aircraft, a
fighter jet, a bombsite video
of a craft that it was chasing.
And it was a saucer-shaped
craft, but as it got--
and this was over
the Netherlands--
as it got close to this craft,
it changed into a box and spun,
totally confusing the pilot and
making him bank away, thinking,
what--
scaring him, almost.
Like, what is that?
What-- that just happened.
But there's theories--
theoretical physicists created
theories about how metal can
change, how objects can change,
and that we even have
the technology now
of doing some of that.
>>EMERY: Where do you
think these mother
ships may be parked in orbit
or beyond Earth's orbit?
>>DOTY: Well, I know I've seen
photographs from the National
Reconnaissance Office,
NRO, and some of them
were on the internet
some years ago,
and a man gave a presentation
at a UFO convention
showing these
photographs, that they're
parked outside of the
Earth's atmosphere.
They're just hanging
out there, so to speak,
and they're huge crafts.
I mean, they're thousands
of feet long and high,
and they are just
sitting out there.
And they're just
hovering out there,
and so it wouldn't take much
to have a craft visiting Earth,
a small-- one of
these smaller crafts--
to have enough
propulsion and technology
to get to the mother ship,
which would take them in.
And then the mother
ship would be the ones
that would fly to the planet.
And there's also rumors that
they could be on a base,
on the moon, or on Mars.
There have been
remote viewers that
can remote view
objects that were
real close to the moon of
Mars, that this object is just
parked out there.
What is it?
Well, it's probably
the mother ship.
>>EMERY: Would you
characterize this
as a voluntary
event or exchange?
>>DOTY: I would.
I would.
They initially made
friends with villagers.
>>EMERY: Right.
>>DOTY: They landed and made
a friend with the villagers.
They obviously had a mission
to disable three Soviet ICBMs
for a particular reason.
Of course, we can't get in
the head of these entities
to figure out why.
But, you know,
probably common sense
would tell me that they
wanted to leave a message.
Listen, earthlings, we
don't like these ICBMs' just
chance of destroying
the atmosphere and even
maybe the solar system, harming
the universe in some way.
And so we want to
leave a message to you
that we're capable of disabling
these things, if we really
want to.
And we are capable of stopping
any wars before it started.
And that's my personal opinion,
and I'm not the only one.
I mean, there's a lot of people
within the government and even
within the
intelligence community
that think the same way.
>>EMERY: Absolutely.
I agree.
Well, great intel on
the Soviet Union, Rick.
I really appreciate
you being on the show.
>>DOTY: Thanks, Emery.
It's good to be on the show.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]